Philip: Welcome.
My name is Philip Smith.
I'm an engineer on the Game Center Services team.
I'm going to be sharing with you a new rule-based
matchmaking feature in Game Center.
This feature provides customized matchmaking for your game,
which will improve the quality of matches
for a more engaging and fair gaming experience.
I will start with a brief overview
of Game Center matchmaking functionality
that allows players of realtime multiplayer games
to discover and connect with other players.
Then I'm going to share
how to set up rule-based matchmaking.
Let's dive in.
Matchmaking is all about giving your players
a fun and engaging experience.
If your players are engaged, then you are going
to retain those players for a longer time.
Now, every game is unique
and so there are many different matchmaking use cases.
You may wish to create unique game modes
with their own rules
for a personalized gaming experience,
or ensure fair and balanced matchups
by grouping players based on skill level or preferences
so you can avoid mismatched games
that lead to frustration or boredom.
Some game modes may involve teams playing each other
where you want to have balanced teams
so the experience isn't one-sided.
Another use case is to set up private matches for friends
or a wider social group using a party code.
But nothing can be more frustrating
than having to wait a long time to get a match.
So it is important to be able to relax constraints
in order to balance wait times against match quality.
With Game Center Classic matchmaking,
you can already enable your players to discover
and connect with others in real time multiplayer games.
But now with rule-based matchmaking, you are going
to be able to do so much more.
You will be able to provide custom rules
for fair and balanced matches
with the ability to relax constraints with time
and easily update rules to adjust to actual patterns of use.
Now let's take a look at how the parts
of the matchmaking system work together.
The classic Game Center matchmaking system is a black box
about how players are matched.
In this example, Alice and Bob want to play now.
The game, through GameKit, submits a match request.
The GameKit API allows the game to restrict matches
to requests with the same player group.
As soon as Game Center finds a match, GameKit is notified
and proceeds to create a realtime connection
between the devices.
Today I'm gonna open up the black box
to share more specifics about rule-based matchmaking
to allow you to customize
how players are matched in your game
for a better player experience.
I can now use the App Store Connect API
to configure rules to best suit my game.
On the game side, GameKit SDK provides APIs for me
to specify the match request queue
along with custom properties for a player
to be used by my rules.
Game Center service periodically runs an algorithm
to find matches between requests in my queue using my rules.
When a match is found, GameKit is notified
and proceeds to create
a real-time connection between the devices.
With rule-based matchmaking,
Game Center provides a matchmaking framework
where I can configure queues
and rulesets customized for my game.
I can use a powerful rules language
to express matchmaking constraints.
And GameKit provides new APIs for my game
to include custom player properties to be used by my rules.
Also provided are developer tools to allow me
to test out my rules with sample requests
and get metrics
to help me understand real player experience.
I will walk you through how to configure, test and observe
rule-based matchmaking.
There are six steps to set up rule-based matchmaking.
Let's look at them one by one.
The first step is to prepare
to use the App Store Connect API.
The rules configuration is achieved using REST endpoints
of the App Store Connect API.
And if you're familiar with this,
it should be straightforward for you.
To access the APIs
you need to create a private API key
using your organization's App Store Connect account.
Calls to the API require a JSON web token for authorization.
Please see the Apple developer documentation
on how to create API keys for App Store Connect API
and how to generate authentication tokens.
Next, let's cover the steps for creating rulesets
and adding rules to customize matchmaking.
The use case I'm exploring for my game
is skill-based matchmaking.
Being matched with players of a similar skill level
leads to a better gaming experience.
However, if I enforce a strict maximum skill difference,
a player could be waiting to match for a long time.
I think it is a better experience if I can balance wait time
against skill difference
by relaxing the maximum skill difference the longer I wait.
Rule-based matchmaking allows me
to loosen constraints over time
in order to balance match quality against wait time.
In this example, I have three players in my queue
with different skill levels.
I think a good match for my game is for players
to have a skill value difference of 20 or less,
but at this moment there are no players
that satisfy this constraint.
What I would like is after waiting for five seconds
to expand the required maximum skill difference to be 40.
Now it looks like the players
with skills 20 and 45 will match.
But for my example, I'm gonna say the player
with a skill of 45 drops out and cancels their request,
leaving the remaining players with no match.
Again, I would like to expand the skill range
after waiting, say, another five seconds to 100,
the maximum possible skill difference for my game
to make sure players get a match.
Well now we have a match.
So although my players had to wait, they do get a match
and can enjoy playing a game.
Next time I'm sure they will match
with a player closer in skill.
I use the App Store Connect API endpoints
to configure rulesets and rules for my organization.
I used the GameCenterMatchmakingRuleSets endpoint
to configure a ruleset.
And for my game I created a ruleset called SkillBasedRules.
I add rules to my ruleset
using the GameCenterMatchmakingRules endpoint.
Now my game has different app versions
that aren't compatible, and so I also add a rule
to require matches only for compatible app versions.
I add another rule to prefer players with lower latency.
Finally, I add a rule to require all matched players
to have a skill value within a given range.
Going into more detail on the request content,
here I first create a ruleset to contain the rules,
passing in a reference name,
the minimum number of players,
and the maximum number of players.
All these properties are specific to my game.
rulesets and queues are associated
with the App Store Connect provider organization,
and so we recommend using a reverse domain name prefix
of the game bundle ID for the ruleset name
to avoid any name clashes.
Here's the response which contains the ID
of the newly created ruleset.
I will need this in subsequent API calls to add a rule
and create a queue.
The next step is to add a rule
using the GameCenterMatchmakingRules endpoint.
I'm just going to show the details
of the SkillDifference rule for now.
Add the rule to the ruleset we just created,
referencing the ID from the last response.
Make the rule type match.
Add a description.
Give the rule a name.
And most importantly, an expression to be evaluated.
The expression grammar is an open source JSON query language
called JMESPath.
Let's dive into this expression a bit.
You can see this is a comparison
where we're making sure the left hand side value
is less than or equal to the right hand side.
The left hand side is a diff function,
which calculates the difference between the lowest
and highest skill level from the current candidate requests.
The right hand side is a fixed value of 20.
Now this expression requires match requests
to have a maximum skill difference of 20.
And this expression is okay for initial testing,
but I think in real use I will find some players
are waiting a long time for a match.
What I want is to expand the skill range as requests age
so that my players match in a reasonable time
and are able to enjoy a game.
To do that, I need to use a different expression.
To update a rule,
I use the GameCenterMatchmakingRules endpoint
with a PATCH method.
The URL and content for this operation
require the ID of the rule.
An updated description is included
and an updated expression.
This one should work a lot better.
Here I have a more complex expression.
We have the same left hand side and comparison.
The right hand side is now a function called agedValues
that will expand the skill range based on the average age
of the candidate requests.
The first parameter is the average age
Then the next parameter
is the initial skill range of 20 I want to enforce
when the age of the requests are less than five seconds.
The next parameter is an array
of expanded skill range values,
where 40 indicates the first skill range expansion
where the age is greater than or equal to five seconds
and less than 10 seconds,
and 100 indicates the second expansion
where the skill range is increased
to 100 when the age is greater than or equal to 10 seconds.
Finally, the last parameter is an array
of age value boundaries
where the skill range will get expanded,
which we have configured to be five seconds and 10 seconds.
Now I'm going to test the ruleset
to make sure it is working as intended.
The App Store Connect API gameCenterMatchmakingRuleSetTests
is provided to allow testing and validation of rules
before integration with your app.
The content required for the endpoint is quite verbose
and it is helpful to hide the complexity by using a script
that accepts much simpler input
and allows for a more efficient way to test rules.
Check the list of resources for this video
to download the Python script.
All the details on using the App Store Connect API,
including the GameCenterMatchmakingRuleSetTests endpoint
may be found in the Apple developer documentation
for the App Store Connect API.
Here is an example of the use
of the testrules Python script.
I'm running the script using the ID
of the ruleset I created earlier
and we have a queue with three requests.
Now the first request has a skill of 10
and is brand new in the queue.
The second request has a skill of 50
and has been in the queue for five seconds.
The third and last has a skill of 90
and has been in the queue for 10 seconds.
Now recall, I set up my rules to require a skill difference
of 20 or less for new requests,
40 for requests that have been in the queue
for longer than five seconds.
Will the first and second request match?
I don't think so,
because the skill difference is more than 20.
Will the second and third requests match?
Yes, they have a difference of 40
but have been in the queue for five seconds.
And the output shows the second
and third requests have matched,
and so my rules are working as expected.
Of course, I will run more test cases
to make sure my rules are good.
The next step is to configure a queue for requests.
If you recall where I left off with the configuration,
I had created the ruleset and rules.
I just tested the rules and they are working as I expected.
Now I use the GameCenterMatchmakingQueues endpoint
to create a queue for my app requests
associated with my ruleset.
Here I have called it skill queue.
Here in more detail is the content required
to create a queue linked to the ruleset I created earlier.
I reference the ruleset ID
and provide a suitable name for the queue.
I use the reverse domain name prefix for the queue name
just as with the ruleset name.
And that is all the App Store Connect API configuration
for my matchmaking rules.
Next, I will cover the code to add to an app
to integrate with rule-based matchmaking.
Use the existing GameKit framework classes,
GKMatchRequest, and GKMatch.
These have new object properties, queueName and properties
to support rule-based matchmaking.
In my app, I add code to create a GKMatchRequest object
and set the matchmaking rule properties
to use the skill level queue
and its set of rules to find players.
I set the queue name property to the reference name
of the queue I previously created.
I set the GKMatchRequest properties to a dictionary
of key value pairs that provide values
that are used in my rule expressions.
My rules only use the one property
for the local player's skill value.
I submit the match request using the GKMatchmaker method
to find a match without presenting a user interface.
You might alternatively present the GKMatchmaker view
to find a match.
The last step is to observe
how your matchmaking rules are working with actual players.
You can diagnose problems with your matchmaking rules
using the App Store Connect API Metrics endpoints.
Metrics include request counts by outcome.
Those can be matched, canceled, or expired.
The time taken to reach an outcome.
And how many active requests in a queue.
There are also metrics
on rule evaluation errors and results.
You can get these metrics data
at different time granularities,
every 15 minutes for eight hours,
hourly over 24 hours, or daily for 30 days.
If Game Center takes too long to find matches
or fails to find matches,
see the Apple developer documentation article,
Troubleshooting Matchmaking Rules Using Metrics.
In this example, the query is to return the count
and time in the queue of requests
with a granularity of one day.
The response contains data points with a datetime range
and metrics values.
And with some scripting magic,
I can turn the response data into charts that allow me
to see how successful are players
using my matchmaking rules.
Well, that concludes our update on rule-based matchmaking.
This new feature is available now.
I hope you'll use this great new capability.
Check out the Apple developer documentation to find out how
to use all its features.
We'd love to hear from you.
If you have any feature requests for Game Center,
please let us know through Apple's Feedback Assistant.
Thanks for joining me today.